libs/components/src/icon/icon.mdx, before:

import { Meta, Story, Controls } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

import * as stories from "./icon.stories";

<Meta of={stories} />

```ts
import { IconModule } from "@bitwarden/components";
```

# Icon Use Instructions

- Icons will generally be attached to the associated Jira task.
  - Designers should minify any SVGs before attaching them to Jira using a tool like
    [SVGOMG](https://jakearchibald.github.io/svgomg/).
    - **Note:** Ensure the "Remove viewbox" option is toggled off if responsive resizing of the icon
      is desired.

## Developer Instructions

1. **Download the SVG** and import it as an `.svg` initially into the IDE of your choice.
   - The SVG should be formatted using either a built-in formatter or an external tool like
     [SVG Formatter Beautifier](https://codebeautify.org/svg-formatter-beautifier) to make applying
     classes easier.

2. **Rename the file** as a `<name>.icon.ts` TypeScript file and place it in the `libs/assets/svg`
   lib.

3. **Import** `svgIcon` from `./icon-service`.

4. **Define and export** a `const` to represent your `svgIcon`.

   ```typescript
   export const ExampleIcon = svgIcon`<svg … </svg>`;
   ```

5. **Replace any hardcoded strokes or fills** with the appropriate Tailwind class.
   - **Note:** Stroke is used when styling the outline of an SVG path, while fill is used when
     styling the inside of an SVG path.

   - A non-comprehensive list of common colors and their associated classes is below:

     | Hardcoded Value                                                                                                                          | Tailwind Stroke Class                 | Tailwind Fill Class                 | Tailwind Variable                   |
     | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
     | `#020F66` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#020F66"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-outline`      | `tw-fill-illustration-outline`      | `--color-illustration-outline`      |
     | `#DBE5F6` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#DBE5F6"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-primary`   | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-primary`   | `--color-illustration-bg-primary`   |
     | `#AAC3EF` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#AAC3EF"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-secondary` | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-secondary` | `--color-illustration-bg-secondary` |
     | `#FFFFFF` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#FFFFFF"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-tertiary`  | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-tertiary`  | `--color-illustration-bg-tertiary`  |
     | `#FFBF00` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#FFBF00"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-tertiary`     | `tw-fill-illustration-tertiary`     | `--color-illustration-tertiary`     |
     | `#175DDC` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#175DDC"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-logo`         | `tw-fill-illustration-logo`         | `--color-illustration-logo`         |

   - If the hex that you have on an SVG path is not listed above, there are a few ways to figure out
     the appropriate Tailwind class:
     - **Option 1: Figma**
       - Open the SVG in Figma.
       - Click on an individual path on the SVG until you see the path's properties in the
         right-hand panel.
       - Scroll down to the Colors section.
         - Example: `Color/Illustration/Outline`
         - This also includes Hex or RGB values that can be used to find the appropriate Tailwind
           variable as well if you follow the manual search option below.
       - Create the appropriate stroke or fill class from the color used.
         - Example: `Color/Illustration/Outline` corresponds to `--color-illustration-outline` which
           corresponds to `tw-stroke-illustration-outline` or `tw-fill-illustration-outline`.
     - **Option 2: Manual Search**
       - Take the path's stroke or fill hex value and convert it to RGB using a tool like
         [Hex to RGB](https://www.rgbtohex.net/hex-to-rgb/).
       - Search for the RGB value without commas in our `tw-theme.css` to find the Tailwind variable
         that corresponds to the color.
       - Create the appropriate stroke or fill class using the Tailwind variable.
         - Example: `--color-illustration-outline` corresponds to `tw-stroke-illustration-outline`
           or `tw-fill-illustration-outline`.

6. **Remove any hardcoded width or height attributes** if your SVG has a configured
   [viewBox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/viewBox) attribute in order
   to allow the SVG to scale to fit its container.
   - **Note:** Scaling is required for any SVG used as an
     [AnonLayout](?path=/docs/component-library-anon-layout--docs) `pageIcon`.

7. **Import your SVG const** anywhere you want to use the SVG.
   - **Angular Component Example:**
     - **TypeScript:**

       ```typescript
       import { Component } from "@angular/core";
       import { IconModule } from '@bitwarden/components';
       import { ExampleIcon, Example2Icon } from "@bitwarden/assets/svg";

       @Component({
         selector: "app-example",
         standalone: true,
         imports: [IconModule],
         templateUrl: "./example.component.html",
       })
       export class ExampleComponent {
         readonly Icons = { ExampleIcon, Example2Icon };
         ...
       }
       ```

     - **HTML:**

       > NOTE: SVG icons are treated as decorative by default and will be `aria-hidden` unless an
       > `ariaLabel` is explicitly provided to the `<bit-icon>` component

       ```html
       <bit-icon [icon]="Icons.ExampleIcon"></bit-icon>
       ```

       With `ariaLabel`

       ```html
       <bit-icon [icon]="Icons.ExampleIcon" [ariaLabel]="Your custom label text here"></bit-icon>
       ```

8. **Ensure your SVG renders properly** according to Figma in both light and dark modes on a client
   which supports multiple style modes.

Commit message:

make all clip path ids unique

libs/components/src/icon/icon.mdx, after:

import { Meta, Story, Controls } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

import * as stories from "./icon.stories";

<Meta of={stories} />

```ts
import { IconModule } from "@bitwarden/components";
```

# Icon Use Instructions

- Icons will generally be attached to the associated Jira task.
  - Designers should minify any SVGs before attaching them to Jira using a tool like
    [SVGOMG](https://jakearchibald.github.io/svgomg/).
    - **Note:** Ensure the "Remove viewbox" option is toggled off if responsive resizing of the icon
      is desired.

## Developer Instructions

1. **Download the SVG** and import it as an `.svg` initially into the IDE of your choice.
   - The SVG should be formatted using either a built-in formatter or an external tool like
     [SVG Formatter Beautifier](https://codebeautify.org/svg-formatter-beautifier) to make applying
     classes easier.

2. **Rename the file** as a `<name>.icon.ts` TypeScript file and place it in the `libs/assets/svg`
   lib.

3. **Import** `svgIcon` from `./icon-service`.

4. **Define and export** a `const` to represent your `svgIcon`.

   ```typescript
   export const ExampleIcon = svgIcon`<svg … </svg>`;
   ```

5. **Replace any hardcoded strokes or fills** with the appropriate Tailwind class.
   - **Note:** Stroke is used when styling the outline of an SVG path, while fill is used when
     styling the inside of an SVG path.

   - A non-comprehensive list of common colors and their associated classes is below:

     | Hardcoded Value                                                                                                                          | Tailwind Stroke Class                 | Tailwind Fill Class                 | Tailwind Variable                   |
     | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
     | `#020F66` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#020F66"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-outline`      | `tw-fill-illustration-outline`      | `--color-illustration-outline`      |
     | `#DBE5F6` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#DBE5F6"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-primary`   | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-primary`   | `--color-illustration-bg-primary`   |
     | `#AAC3EF` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#AAC3EF"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-secondary` | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-secondary` | `--color-illustration-bg-secondary` |
     | `#FFFFFF` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#FFFFFF"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-bg-tertiary`  | `tw-fill-illustration-bg-tertiary`  | `--color-illustration-bg-tertiary`  |
     | `#FFBF00` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#FFBF00"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-tertiary`     | `tw-fill-illustration-tertiary`     | `--color-illustration-tertiary`     |
     | `#175DDC` <span style={{ display: "inline-block", width: "8px", height: "8px", borderRadius: "50%", backgroundColor: "#175DDC"}}></span> | `tw-stroke-illustration-logo`         | `tw-fill-illustration-logo`         | `--color-illustration-logo`         |

   - If the hex that you have on an SVG path is not listed above, there are a few ways to figure out
     the appropriate Tailwind class:
     - **Option 1: Figma**
       - Open the SVG in Figma.
       - Click on an individual path on the SVG until you see the path's properties in the
         right-hand panel.
       - Scroll down to the Colors section.
         - Example: `Color/Illustration/Outline`
         - This also includes Hex or RGB values that can be used to find the appropriate Tailwind
           variable as well if you follow the manual search option below.
       - Create the appropriate stroke or fill class from the color used.
         - Example: `Color/Illustration/Outline` corresponds to `--color-illustration-outline` which
           corresponds to `tw-stroke-illustration-outline` or `tw-fill-illustration-outline`.
     - **Option 2: Manual Search**
       - Take the path's stroke or fill hex value and convert it to RGB using a tool like
         [Hex to RGB](https://www.rgbtohex.net/hex-to-rgb/).
       - Search for the RGB value without commas in our `tw-theme.css` to find the Tailwind variable
         that corresponds to the color.
       - Create the appropriate stroke or fill class using the Tailwind variable.
         - Example: `--color-illustration-outline` corresponds to `tw-stroke-illustration-outline`
           or `tw-fill-illustration-outline`.

6. **Remove any hardcoded width or height attributes** if your SVG has a configured
   [viewBox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/viewBox) attribute in order
   to allow the SVG to scale to fit its container.
   - **Note:** Scaling is required for any SVG used as an
     [AnonLayout](?path=/docs/component-library-anon-layout--docs) `pageIcon`.

7. **Replace any generic `clipPath` ids** (such as `id="a"`) with a unique id, and update the
   referencing element to use the new id (such as `clip-path="url(#unique-id-here)"`).

8. **Import your SVG const** anywhere you want to use the SVG.
   - **Angular Component Example:**
     - **TypeScript:**

       ```typescript
       import { Component } from "@angular/core";
       import { IconModule } from '@bitwarden/components';
       import { ExampleIcon, Example2Icon } from "@bitwarden/assets/svg";

       @Component({
         selector: "app-example",
         standalone: true,
         imports: [IconModule],
         templateUrl: "./example.component.html",
       })
       export class ExampleComponent {
         readonly Icons = { ExampleIcon, Example2Icon };
         ...
       }
       ```

     - **HTML:**

       > NOTE: SVG icons are treated as decorative by default and will be `aria-hidden` unless an
       > `ariaLabel` is explicitly provided to the `<bit-icon>` component

       ```html
       <bit-icon [icon]="Icons.ExampleIcon"></bit-icon>
       ```

       With `ariaLabel`

       ```html
       <bit-icon [icon]="Icons.ExampleIcon" [ariaLabel]="Your custom label text here"></bit-icon>
       ```

9. **Ensure your SVG renders properly** according to Figma in both light and dark modes on a client
   which supports multiple style modes.
