.TH BW-CONFIG 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-config \- configure CLI settings

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw config
\fIsetting\fP [\fIvalue\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Configure CLI settings, primarily for connecting to self-hosted Bitwarden
servers. Without a value, displays the current setting.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I setting
The setting to configure. Currently supported:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B server
\- Bitwarden server URL (for self-hosted installations)
.RE
.TP
.I value
The value to set. Omit to view current value. Use \fBnull\fP to reset to default.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-web\-vault\  url
Set a custom web vault URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-api\  url
Set a custom API URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-identity\  url
Set a custom identity URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-icons\  url
Set a custom icons URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-notifications\  url
Set a custom notifications URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-events\  url
Set a custom events URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-key\-connector\  url
Set a custom key connector URL.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
View current server setting:
.nf
$ bw config server
https://vault.bitwarden.com
.fi
.TP
Set a self-hosted server:
.nf
$ bw config server https://bitwarden.example.com
.fi
.TP
Set server with custom component URLs:
.nf
$ bw config server https://bitwarden.example.com \\
    --api https://api.bitwarden.example.com \\
    --identity https://identity.bitwarden.example.com
.fi
.TP
Reset to default Bitwarden servers:
.nf
$ bw config server null
.fi
.TP
Set only specific URLs (advanced):
.nf
$ bw config server \\
    --web-vault https://vault.example.com \\
    --api https://api.example.com \\
    --identity https://id.example.com
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Does not require authentication.
.TP
\(bu
Configuration is stored locally in the CLI data directory.
.TP
\(bu
Log out and log back in after changing server settings.
.TP
\(bu
Self-hosted servers must be properly configured with valid SSL certificates.
.TP
\(bu
The individual URL options allow for split-service deployments.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Configuration updated or viewed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-login (1),
.BR bw-status (1)
