.TH BW-CREATE 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-create \- create an object in the vault

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw create
\fIobject\fP [\fIencodedJson\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a new object in the vault. The object data should be provided as
base64-encoded JSON. Use \fBbw get template\fP to get the JSON structure
and \fBbw encode\fP to encode it.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I object
Type of object to create. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B item
\- A vault item
.IP \(bu 2
.B attachment
\- An attachment to an existing item
.IP \(bu 2
.B folder
\- A folder
.IP \(bu 2
.B org-collection
\- An organization collection
.RE
.TP
.I encodedJson
Base64-encoded JSON object data. Can also be piped via stdin.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-file\  path
Path to file for attachment creation.
.TP
.BI \-\-itemid\  id
Item ID for attachment creation.
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Organization ID for org-collection creation.

.SH ITEM TYPES
When creating items, set the \fBtype\fP field to:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B 1
\- Login
.IP \(bu 2
.B 2
\- Secure Note
.IP \(bu 2
.B 3
\- Card
.IP \(bu 2
.B 4
\- Identity
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a login item:
.nf
$ bw get template item.login | jq '.name="My Login" | .login.username="user" | .login.password="pass"' | bw encode | bw create item
.fi
.TP
Create a secure note:
.nf
$ bw get template item | jq '.type=2 | .name="My Note" | .notes="Secret content"' | bw encode | bw create item
.fi
.TP
Create a folder:
.nf
$ bw get template folder | jq '.name="Work"' | bw encode | bw create folder
.fi
.TP
Create an attachment:
.nf
$ bw create attachment --file ./document.pdf --itemid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Create with inline encoded JSON:
.nf
$ echo '{"name":"Test Folder"}' | bw encode | bw create folder
.fi
.TP
Create from a file:
.nf
$ cat item.json | bw encode | bw create item
.fi
.TP
Create an organization collection:
.nf
$ bw get template org-collection | jq '.name="Team Passwords"' | bw encode | bw create org-collection --organizationid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
All JSON must be base64-encoded. Use \fBbw encode\fP for this.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fBbw get template\fP to get the required JSON structure.
.TP
\(bu
Items are synced to the server immediately after creation.
.TP
\(bu
For complex items with custom fields or multiple URIs, edit the template JSON accordingly.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Object created successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Creation failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-get (1),
.BR bw-edit (1),
.BR bw-delete (1),
.BR bw-encode (1)
