.TH BW-DELETE 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-delete \- delete an object from the vault

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw delete
\fIobject\fP \fIid\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Delete an object from the vault. By default, items are moved to the trash
and can be restored within 30 days. Use \fB--permanent\fP to permanently
delete items.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I object
Type of object to delete. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B item
\- A vault item
.IP \(bu 2
.B attachment
\- An attachment (requires \fB--itemid\fP)
.IP \(bu 2
.B folder
\- A folder (items in folder are not deleted)
.IP \(bu 2
.B org-collection
\- An organization collection
.RE
.TP
.I id
Object UUID to delete, or attachment ID/filename for attachments.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-itemid\  id
Item ID (required when deleting attachments).
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Organization ID (required for org-collection).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-permanent
Permanently delete the item instead of moving to trash. Only applies to items.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Delete an item (moves to trash):
.nf
$ bw delete item 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Permanently delete an item:
.nf
$ bw delete item 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 --permanent
.fi
.TP
Delete an attachment:
.nf
$ bw delete attachment "document.pdf" --itemid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Delete a folder:
.nf
$ bw delete folder 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Delete an organization collection:
.nf
$ bw delete org-collection 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 --organizationid org-id
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
Deleted items go to trash and are permanently deleted after 30 days.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fBbw restore\fP to recover items from trash.
.TP
\(bu
Deleting a folder does not delete items in that folder.
.TP
\(bu
Permanently deleted items cannot be recovered.
.TP
\(bu
Organization items may require appropriate permissions to delete.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Object deleted successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Deletion failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-restore (1),
.BR bw-create (1),
.BR bw-list (1)
