.TH BW-EXPORT 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-export \- export vault data to CSV, JSON, or encrypted JSON

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw export
[\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Export vault data to a file in various formats. Supports unencrypted CSV
and JSON for importing into other tools, and encrypted JSON for secure
Bitwarden backups.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-output\  path
Output file path. If not specified, writes to stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-format\  format
Export format. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B csv
\- Comma-separated values (default)
.IP \(bu 2
.B json
\- Unencrypted JSON
.IP \(bu 2
.B encrypted_json
\- Encrypted JSON (password-protected)
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-password\  password
Password for encrypted_json format. If not provided, you will be prompted.
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Export an organization vault instead of personal vault.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Export to CSV (default):
.nf
$ bw export --output ~/backup.csv
.fi
.TP
Export to JSON:
.nf
$ bw export --format json --output ~/backup.json
.fi
.TP
Export encrypted backup:
.nf
$ bw export --format encrypted_json --output ~/backup.json
? Export file password: [hidden]
? Confirm password: [hidden]
.fi
.TP
Export encrypted with inline password:
.nf
$ bw export --format encrypted_json --password "mybackuppassword" --output ~/backup.json
.fi
.TP
Export to stdout:
.nf
$ bw export --format json
.fi
.TP
Export organization vault:
.nf
$ bw export --organizationid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 --output ~/org_backup.csv
.fi
.TP
Export and encrypt with GPG:
.nf
$ bw export --format json | gpg --encrypt -r user@example.com > backup.json.gpg
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
\fBWARNING:\fP Unencrypted exports (CSV, JSON) contain sensitive data in plaintext.
.TP
\(bu
Store unencrypted exports securely and delete them when no longer needed.
.TP
\(bu
Encrypted JSON exports can be imported back into Bitwarden.
.TP
\(bu
Organization exports require appropriate permissions.
.TP
\(bu
File attachments are not included in exports.
.TP
\(bu
TOTP seeds are included in unencrypted exports.

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.TP
\(bu
Unencrypted exports expose all passwords, notes, and TOTP seeds.
.TP
\(bu
Use encrypted_json format for backups when possible.
.TP
\(bu
Set restrictive file permissions on export files (chmod 600).
.TP
\(bu
Consider additional encryption (GPG) for sensitive backups.
.TP
\(bu
Securely delete export files after use (shred, srm).

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Export completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Export failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-import (1),
.BR bw-sync (1)
