.TH BW-GET 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-get \- get an object from the vault

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw get
\fIobject\fP \fIid\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Get a specific object from the vault. The \fIid\fP can be the object's UUID
or a search term that uniquely identifies the object.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I object
Type of object to get. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B item
\- A vault item (returns full item JSON)
.IP \(bu 2
.B username
\- Username field of a login item
.IP \(bu 2
.B password
\- Password field of a login item
.IP \(bu 2
.B uri
\- First URI of a login item
.IP \(bu 2
.B totp
\- TOTP code for a login item (if configured)
.IP \(bu 2
.B notes
\- Secure notes field of an item
.IP \(bu 2
.B exposed
\- Check if password has been exposed in data breaches
.IP \(bu 2
.B attachment
\- Download an attachment
.IP \(bu 2
.B folder
\- A folder
.IP \(bu 2
.B collection
\- A collection
.IP \(bu 2
.B org-collection
\- An organization collection
.IP \(bu 2
.B organization
\- An organization
.IP \(bu 2
.B template
\- Get a JSON template for creating objects
.IP \(bu 2
.B fingerprint
\- Get fingerprint phrase for a user
.IP \(bu 2
.B send
\- A Bitwarden Send
.RE
.TP
.I id
Object UUID or search term. For templates, use the template type name.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-itemid\  id
Attachment's item ID (required for attachments).
.TP
.BI \-\-output\  path
Output file path for attachments. Use \fB-\fP for stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Organization ID (for org-collection).

.SH TEMPLATE TYPES
When using \fBbw get template\fP, valid types are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
item, item.login, item.card, item.identity, item.securenote
.IP \(bu 2
item.field, item.login.uri
.IP \(bu 2
folder, collection, org-collection
.IP \(bu 2
send.text, send.file
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Get an item by ID:
.nf
$ bw get item 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Get an item by search term:
.nf
$ bw get item "GitHub"
.fi
.TP
Get a password (useful for piping):
.nf
$ bw get password "GitHub" | pbcopy
.fi
.TP
Get username:
.nf
$ bw get username "GitHub"
.fi
.TP
Get TOTP code:
.nf
$ bw get totp "GitHub"
.fi
.TP
Check if password has been exposed:
.nf
$ bw get exposed 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Download an attachment:
.nf
$ bw get attachment "document.pdf" --itemid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 --output ~/Downloads/
.fi
.TP
Get attachment to stdout:
.nf
$ bw get attachment "file.txt" --itemid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 --output -
.fi
.TP
Get a template for creating new items:
.nf
$ bw get template item.login
.fi
.TP
Get a folder:
.nf
$ bw get folder "Work"
.fi
.TP
Get user fingerprint phrase:
.nf
$ bw get fingerprint me
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
When using a search term as ID, it must uniquely match one object.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--raw\fP to get only the value without formatting (useful for scripts).
.TP
\(bu
TOTP codes are time-sensitive and rotate every 30 seconds.
.TP
\(bu
The "exposed" check uses the Have I Been Pwned API with k-anonymity.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Object retrieved successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Object not found or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-list (1),
.BR bw-create (1),
.BR bw-edit (1)
