.TH BW-GENERATE 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-generate \- generate a password or passphrase

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw generate
[\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate a random password or passphrase based on specified criteria.
Useful for creating strong, unique passwords for new accounts.

This command does not require authentication and can be used without
logging in.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Character Options
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uppercase
Include uppercase characters (A-Z).
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-lowercase
Include lowercase characters (a-z).
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-number
Include numbers (0-9).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-special
Include special characters (!@#$%^&*).
.TP
.BR \-\-ambiguous
Include ambiguous characters (0O1lI).

.SS Length Options
.TP
.BI \-\-length\  length
Length of the password. Default is 14.
.TP
.BI \-\-minNumber\  count
Minimum number of numeric characters.
.TP
.BI \-\-minSpecial\  count
Minimum number of special characters.

.SS Passphrase Options
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-passphrase
Generate a passphrase instead of a password.
.TP
.BI \-\-words\  count
Number of words in the passphrase. Default is 3.
.TP
.BI \-\-separator\  char
Word separator character. Default is a space.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-capitalize
Capitalize the first letter of each passphrase word.
.TP
.BR \-\-includeNumber
Include a number in the passphrase.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Generate a default password (14 chars, lowercase + uppercase):
.nf
$ bw generate
xKpH4mNqR2sT5w
.fi
.TP
Generate a 20-character password with all character types:
.nf
$ bw generate -ulns --length 20
xK#pH4$mNq!R2sT5w@Yb
.fi
.TP
Generate password with minimum requirements:
.nf
$ bw generate -ulns --length 16 --minNumber 2 --minSpecial 2
.fi
.TP
Generate a passphrase:
.nf
$ bw generate --passphrase
correct horse battery
.fi
.TP
Generate a 5-word capitalized passphrase with dashes:
.nf
$ bw generate --passphrase --words 5 --separator "-" --capitalize
Correct-Horse-Battery-Staple-Fish
.fi
.TP
Generate passphrase with number:
.nf
$ bw generate --passphrase --words 4 --includeNumber
correct 7 horse battery
.fi
.TP
Generate and copy to clipboard (macOS):
.nf
$ bw generate -ulns --length 20 | pbcopy
.fi
.TP
Generate and copy to clipboard (Linux with xclip):
.nf
$ bw generate -ulns --length 20 | xclip -selection clipboard
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Does not require authentication. Can be used offline.
.TP
\(bu
For passwords, at least one character type option must be specified or defaults are used.
.TP
\(bu
Passphrases use the EFF word list for memorable, secure phrases.
.TP
\(bu
Longer passwords/passphrases are generally more secure.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--raw\fP to get just the password without any extra output.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Password generated successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-create (1)
