.TH BW-IMPORT 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-import \- import vault data from various formats

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw import
[\fIformat\fP] [\fIinput\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Import vault data from a file or stdin. Supports many password manager
export formats including CSV, JSON, XML, and proprietary formats from
various password managers.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I format
Import format identifier. Use \fB--formats\fP to list all supported formats.
.TP
.I input
Path to the import file, or omit to read from stdin.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-formats
List all supported import formats and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Import to an organization vault instead of personal vault.

.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
Common formats include (use \fB--formats\fP for complete list):
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B bitwardencsv
\- Bitwarden CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B bitwardenjson
\- Bitwarden JSON
.IP \(bu 2
.B lastpasscsv
\- LastPass CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B keepabordenxml
\- KeePass 2 XML
.IP \(bu 2
.B 1passwordcsv
\- 1Password CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B 1password1pif
\- 1Password 1PIF
.IP \(bu 2
.B dashlanecsv
\- Dashlane CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B chromecsv
\- Chrome/Chromium CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B firefoxcsv
\- Firefox CSV
.IP \(bu 2
.B safariicsv
\- Safari CSV
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all supported formats:
.nf
$ bw import --formats
.fi
.TP
Import from Bitwarden JSON:
.nf
$ bw import bitwardenjson ./backup.json
.fi
.TP
Import from LastPass CSV:
.nf
$ bw import lastpasscsv ./lastpass_export.csv
.fi
.TP
Import from 1Password:
.nf
$ bw import 1password1pif ./1password_export.1pif
.fi
.TP
Import from Chrome:
.nf
$ bw import chromecsv ./chrome_passwords.csv
.fi
.TP
Import to an organization:
.nf
$ bw import bitwardenjson ./team_passwords.json --organizationid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Import from stdin:
.nf
$ cat passwords.csv | bw import lastpasscsv
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
Import files may contain sensitive data; delete them securely after import.
.TP
\(bu
Some formats may not support all Bitwarden features (custom fields, etc.).
.TP
\(bu
Organization imports require appropriate permissions.
.TP
\(bu
Large imports may take time to process.
.TP
\(bu
Duplicate items are not automatically merged.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Import completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Import failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-export (1),
.BR bw-create (1)
