.TH BW-LIST 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-list \- list objects from the vault

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw list
\fIobject\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
List and filter objects from the vault. Returns a JSON array of matching objects.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I object
Type of object to list. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B items
\- Vault items (logins, cards, identities, notes)
.IP \(bu 2
.B folders
\- Folders
.IP \(bu 2
.B collections
\- Collections (for organization members)
.IP \(bu 2
.B org-collections
\- Organization collections (for organization admins)
.IP \(bu 2
.B org-members
\- Organization members
.IP \(bu 2
.B organizations
\- Organizations the user belongs to
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-search\  search
Search items for the given string. Searches names, URIs, and other fields.
.TP
.BI \-\-url\  url
Filter login items by URL. Useful for browser integration.
.TP
.BI \-\-folderid\  id
Filter items by folder ID. Use \fBnull\fP for items without a folder.
.TP
.BI \-\-collectionid\  id
Filter items by collection ID. Use \fBnull\fP for items not in a collection.
.TP
.BI \-\-organizationid\  id
Filter items by organization ID. Use \fBnull\fP for personal items only.
.TP
.BR \-\-trash
List only items in the trash.

.SH FILTER LOGIC
.TP
\(bu
Combining \fB--search\fP with any filter uses AND logic.
.TP
\(bu
Combining multiple filters (e.g., \fB--folderid\fP and \fB--collectionid\fP) uses OR logic.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all items:
.nf
$ bw list items
.fi
.TP
Search for items:
.nf
$ bw list items --search "github"
.fi
.TP
List items matching a URL:
.nf
$ bw list items --url "https://github.com"
.fi
.TP
List items in a specific folder:
.nf
$ bw list items --folderid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
List items without a folder:
.nf
$ bw list items --folderid null
.fi
.TP
List items in trash:
.nf
$ bw list items --trash
.fi
.TP
List all folders:
.nf
$ bw list folders
.fi
.TP
List organization members:
.nf
$ bw list org-members --organizationid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Combine search with folder filter (AND logic):
.nf
$ bw list items --search "login" --folderid 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Pretty print results:
.nf
$ bw list items --pretty
.fi
.TP
Use with jq for filtering:
.nf
$ bw list items | jq '.[] | select(.type == 1)'
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
Output is JSON by default. Use \fB--pretty\fP for formatted output.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fBjq\fP or similar tools for complex filtering and formatting.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-get (1),
.BR bw-create (1),
.BR bw-sync (1)
