.TH BW-LOGIN 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-login \- log into a Bitwarden user account

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw login
[\fIemail\fP] [\fIpassword\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Log into a Bitwarden user account. After successful login, you must unlock the
vault with \fBbw unlock\fP to access vault data.

Multiple authentication methods are supported including master password,
two-factor authentication, SSO, and API keys.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I email
Email address for the Bitwarden account. If not provided, you will be prompted.
.TP
.I password
Master password. If not provided, you will be prompted interactively.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-method\  method
Two-step login method. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B 0
\- Authenticator app (TOTP)
.IP \(bu 2
.B 1
\- Email
.IP \(bu 2
.B 3
\- YubiKey OTP
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-code\  code
Two-step login code from your authenticator app, email, or hardware key.
.TP
.BR \-\-sso
Log in with Single Sign-On (SSO). Optionally provide organization identifier.
.TP
.BR \-\-apikey
Log in with an API key. Reads from \fBBW_CLIENTID\fP and \fBBW_CLIENTSECRET\fP
environment variables, or prompts interactively.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordenv\  env
Environment variable name storing the master password.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordfile\  file
Path to a file containing the master password.
.TP
.BR \-\-check
Check login status without attempting to log in.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B BW_CLIENTID
API client ID for API key authentication.
.TP
.B BW_CLIENTSECRET
API client secret for API key authentication.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Interactive login:
.nf
$ bw login
? Email address: user@example.com
? Master password: [hidden]
You are logged in!
.fi
.TP
Login with email and password:
.nf
$ bw login user@example.com mypassword
.fi
.TP
Login with two-factor authentication:
.nf
$ bw login user@example.com mypassword --method 0 --code 123456
.fi
.TP
Login with SSO:
.nf
$ bw login --sso my-org-identifier
.fi
.TP
Login with API key:
.nf
$ export BW_CLIENTID="client_id_here"
$ export BW_CLIENTSECRET="client_secret_here"
$ bw login --apikey
.fi
.TP
Login with password from environment variable:
.nf
$ export MY_BW_PASSWORD="mypassword"
$ bw login user@example.com --passwordenv MY_BW_PASSWORD
.fi
.TP
Login with password from file:
.nf
$ echo "mypassword" > ~/.bw_password
$ chmod 600 ~/.bw_password
$ bw login user@example.com --passwordfile ~/.bw_password
.fi
.TP
Check login status:
.nf
$ bw login --check
You are logged in!
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
After logging in, use \fBbw unlock\fP to unlock the vault and obtain a session key.
.TP
\(bu
For automation, consider using API keys instead of master password.
.TP
\(bu
SSO login requires the organization to have SSO configured.
.TP
\(bu
When using \fB--passwordfile\fP, ensure the file has restricted permissions (600).

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful login or check.
.TP
.B 1
Login failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-logout (1),
.BR bw-unlock (1),
.BR bw-status (1)
