.TH BW-RECEIVE 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-receive \- access a Bitwarden Send from a URL

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw receive
\fIurl\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Access a Bitwarden Send using its URL. This allows receiving shared content
without a Bitwarden account. For file Sends, the file can be downloaded to
a specified location.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I url
The full Send URL (e.g., https://send.bitwarden.com/#...).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-password\  password
Password for password-protected Sends.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordenv\  env
Environment variable containing the Send password.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordfile\  file
Path to a file containing the Send password.
.TP
.BR \-\-obj
Return the full Send object as JSON instead of just the content.
.TP
.BI \-\-output\  path
Output location for file Sends. Required for file type Sends.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Receive a text Send:
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#abcdefg/xyz123"
Secret message content here
.fi
.TP
Receive a password-protected Send:
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#abcdefg/xyz123" --password "sharepass"
.fi
.TP
Receive with password from environment:
.nf
$ export SEND_PASSWORD="sharepass"
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#..." --passwordenv SEND_PASSWORD
.fi
.TP
Receive with password from file:
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#..." --passwordfile ~/.send_password
.fi
.TP
Download a file Send:
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#..." --output ~/Downloads/
.fi
.TP
Download file Send to specific filename:
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#..." --output ~/Downloads/document.pdf
.fi
.TP
Get full Send object (metadata):
.nf
$ bw receive "https://send.bitwarden.com/#..." --obj
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Does not require authentication for receiving.
.TP
\(bu
The URL contains the decryption key; keep it secure.
.TP
\(bu
Sends may have access limits or expiration dates.
.TP
\(bu
File Sends require \fB--output\fP to specify download location.
.TP
\(bu
Password-protected Sends require the correct password to access.
.TP
\(bu
Each access may count against the Send's max access limit.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Send received successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (invalid URL, wrong password, expired, etc.).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-send (1)
