.TH BW-STATUS 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-status \- show account and vault status

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw status

.SH DESCRIPTION
Display the current status of the CLI, including server URL, last sync time,
user information, and vault lock status.

Returns a JSON object with status information that can be parsed by scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
This command has no specific options. See \fBbw\fP(1) for global options.

.SH OUTPUT FIELDS
.TP
.B serverUrl
The Bitwarden server URL being used.
.TP
.B lastSync
ISO 8601 timestamp of the last successful sync, or null if never synced.
.TP
.B userEmail
Email address of the logged-in user, or null if not logged in.
.TP
.B userId
UUID of the logged-in user, or null if not logged in.
.TP
.B status
Current status. One of:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B unauthenticated
\- Not logged in
.IP \(bu 2
.B locked
\- Logged in but vault is locked
.IP \(bu 2
.B unlocked
\- Logged in and vault is unlocked
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check current status:
.nf
$ bw status
{
  "serverUrl": "https://vault.bitwarden.com",
  "lastSync": "2026-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "userEmail": "user@example.com",
  "userId": "12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012",
  "status": "unlocked"
}
.fi
.TP
Check status with pretty printing:
.nf
$ bw status --pretty
.fi
.TP
Get just the status field with jq:
.nf
$ bw status | jq -r '.status'
unlocked
.fi
.TP
Check if logged in:
.nf
$ bw status | jq -r 'if .status == "unauthenticated" then "Not logged in" else "Logged in as " + .userEmail end'
.fi
.TP
Use in a script:
.nf
#!/bin/bash
status=$(bw status | jq -r '.status')
if [ "$status" == "unlocked" ]; then
    echo "Vault is ready"
else
    echo "Please unlock vault first"
fi
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Does not require authentication (returns unauthenticated status).
.TP
\(bu
Useful for checking state before running other commands.
.TP
\(bu
Output is always JSON regardless of global options.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Status retrieved successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-login (1),
.BR bw-unlock (1),
.BR bw-sync (1)
