.TH BW-SERVE 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-serve \- start a local RESTful API web server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw serve
[\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Start a local RESTful API web server that exposes Bitwarden CLI functionality
through HTTP endpoints. This enables integration with other applications,
browser extensions, and automation tools.

The server runs on localhost by default and requires an unlocked vault session.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-hostname\  hostname
Hostname to bind to. Default is \fBlocalhost\fP. Use \fBall\fP to bind to
all interfaces (0.0.0.0).
.TP
.BI \-\-port\  port
Port to listen on. Default is \fB8087\fP.
.TP
.BR \-\-disable\-origin\-protection
Disable CSRF/origin header protection.
.sp
\fBWARNING:\fP This disables important security checks. Only use this if you
understand the implications and have other protections in place.

.SH API ENDPOINTS
The API exposes endpoints corresponding to CLI commands:

.SS Authentication
.TP
.B POST /unlock
Unlock the vault. Body: \fB{"password": "..."}\fP
.TP
.B POST /lock
Lock the vault.
.TP
.B GET /status
Get current status.
.TP
.B POST /sync
Sync the vault.

.SS Vault Operations
.TP
.B GET /list/object/:object
List objects (items, folders, collections, etc.).
.TP
.B GET /object/:object/:id
Get a specific object.
.TP
.B POST /object/:object
Create an object.
.TP
.B PUT /object/:object/:id
Update an object.
.TP
.B DELETE /object/:object/:id
Delete an object.

.SS Utilities
.TP
.B GET /generate
Generate a password.
.TP
.B POST /object/attachment
Create an attachment.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start the API server:
.nf
$ bw serve
Listening on localhost:8087
.fi
.TP
Start on a custom port:
.nf
$ bw serve --port 9000
Listening on localhost:9000
.fi
.TP
Bind to all interfaces (for container use):
.nf
$ bw serve --hostname all --port 8087
Listening on 0.0.0.0:8087
.fi
.TP
Run in background:
.nf
$ bw serve &
.fi
.TP
Use with curl to list items:
.nf
$ curl http://localhost:8087/list/object/items
.fi
.TP
Get a specific item:
.nf
$ curl http://localhost:8087/object/item/12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Generate a password:
.nf
$ curl "http://localhost:8087/generate?length=20&uppercase=true&lowercase=true&number=true&special=true"
.fi
.TP
Unlock the vault via API:
.nf
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \\
    -d '{"password":"masterpassword"}' \\
    http://localhost:8087/unlock
.fi

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.TP
\(bu
The server has access to all vault data; secure it appropriately.
.TP
\(bu
By default, only localhost connections are accepted.
.TP
\(bu
Origin header validation prevents CSRF attacks from web pages.
.TP
\(bu
Do not expose the server to untrusted networks.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--disable-origin-protection\fP only when absolutely necessary.
.TP
\(bu
Consider running behind a reverse proxy with authentication for production use.
.TP
\(bu
The server does not have its own authentication; the vault session provides access.

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked before starting).
.TP
\(bu
The server runs in the foreground by default.
.TP
\(bu
Press Ctrl+C to stop the server.
.TP
\(bu
API responses are in JSON format.
.TP
\(bu
Query parameters can be used for filtering (same as CLI options).

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Server stopped normally.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-unlock (1),
.BR bw-list (1),
.BR bw-get (1)
