.TH BW-SEND 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-send \- create and manage Bitwarden Sends for secure sharing

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw send
[\fIdata\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
.br
.B bw send
\fIsubcommand\fP [\fIarguments\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Create, manage, and access Bitwarden Sends. Sends allow secure sharing of
text or files with anyone, even if they don't have a Bitwarden account.
Sends can be password-protected and have expiration settings.

.SH QUICK CREATE
The simplest form creates a text Send directly:

.B bw send
\fIdata\fP [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all Sends you own.
.TP
.B get \fIid\fP
Get details of a Send by ID or search term.
.TP
.B create \fI[encodedJson]\fP
Create a Send from encoded JSON template.
.TP
.B edit \fI[encodedJson]\fP
Edit an existing Send.
.TP
.B delete \fIid\fP
Delete a Send.
.TP
.B template \fIobject\fP
Get JSON template for Send objects.
.TP
.B remove-password \fIid\fP
Remove password protection from a Send.

.SH QUICK CREATE OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file
Treat \fIdata\fP as a file path to upload.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-deleteInDays\  days
Number of days until automatic deletion. Default is 7.
.TP
.BI \-\-password\  password
Password protect the Send.
.TP
.BI \-a ", " \-\-maxAccessCount\  count
Maximum number of times the Send can be accessed.
.TP
.BR \-\-hidden
Hide the text value by default (text Sends only).
.TP
.BI \-n ", " \-\-name\  name
Name of the Send.
.TP
.BI \-\-notes\  notes
Private notes about the Send (not shared with recipients).
.TP
.BR \-\-fullObject
Return the full Send object instead of just the URL.

.SH TEMPLATE TYPES
For \fBbw send template\fP:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B send.text
or
.B text
\- Text Send template
.IP \(bu 2
.B send.file
or
.B file
\- File Send template
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Quick Create
.TP
Create a simple text Send:
.nf
$ bw send "Secret message"
https://send.bitwarden.com/#...
.fi
.TP
Create password-protected text Send:
.nf
$ bw send "Secret message" --password "sharepassword"
.fi
.TP
Create a file Send:
.nf
$ bw send -f ./document.pdf
.fi
.TP
Create Send with custom options:
.nf
$ bw send "API Key: abc123" -n "API Credentials" -d 1 -a 3 --hidden
.fi

.SS List and Get
.TP
List all Sends:
.nf
$ bw send list
.fi
.TP
Get a specific Send:
.nf
$ bw send get "API Credentials"
.fi
.TP
Get Send text content directly:
.nf
$ bw send get "API Credentials" --text
.fi

.SS Create with Template
.TP
Create from template:
.nf
$ bw send template send.text | jq '.text.text="Secret" | .name="My Send"' | bw encode | bw send create
.fi

.SS Edit and Delete
.TP
Edit a Send:
.nf
$ bw send get 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012 | jq '.name="New Name"' | bw encode | bw send edit
.fi
.TP
Delete a Send:
.nf
$ bw send delete 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi
.TP
Remove password from Send:
.nf
$ bw send remove-password 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Requires an active session (vault must be unlocked).
.TP
\(bu
Send URLs contain the decryption key; treat them as sensitive.
.TP
\(bu
File Sends cannot have their files updated after creation.
.TP
\(bu
Maximum file size limits apply based on your account type.
.TP
\(bu
Sends are automatically deleted after the specified number of days.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--hidden\fP for sensitive text that shouldn't be immediately visible.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-receive (1)
