.TH BW-UNLOCK 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw-unlock \- unlock the vault and return a new session key

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw unlock
[\fIpassword\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Unlock the vault and return a new session key. The session key is required for
accessing vault data with other commands.

You must be logged in before unlocking. Use \fBbw login\fP first if needed.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I password
Master password. If not provided, you will be prompted interactively.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-check
Check lock status without attempting to unlock.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordenv\  env
Environment variable name storing the master password.
.TP
.BI \-\-passwordfile\  file
Path to a file containing the master password.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Interactive unlock:
.nf
$ bw unlock
? Master password: [hidden]
Your vault is now unlocked!

To unlock your vault, set your session key to the BW_SESSION
environment variable. ex:
$ export BW_SESSION="..."
.fi
.TP
Unlock and export session (recommended for scripts):
.nf
$ export BW_SESSION=$(bw unlock --raw)
.fi
.TP
Unlock with password from environment variable:
.nf
$ export MY_BW_PASSWORD="mypassword"
$ export BW_SESSION=$(bw unlock --passwordenv MY_BW_PASSWORD --raw)
.fi
.TP
Unlock with password from file:
.nf
$ export BW_SESSION=$(bw unlock --passwordfile ~/.bw_password --raw)
.fi
.TP
Check lock status:
.nf
$ bw unlock --check
Your vault is unlocked!
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--raw\fP to output only the session key (useful for scripts).
.TP
\(bu
The session key should be exported as \fBBW_SESSION\fP for other commands.
.TP
\(bu
Session keys are sensitive; do not log or expose them.
.TP
\(bu
For automation, consider storing the password securely with \fB--passwordfile\fP.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Vault successfully unlocked or check passed.
.TP
.B 1
Unlock failed or error occurred.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw (1),
.BR bw-lock (1),
.BR bw-login (1),
.BR bw-status (1)
