.TH BW 1 "January 2026" "Bitwarden CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bw \- Bitwarden command-line password manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bw
[\fIglobal-options\fP] \fIcommand\fP [\fIcommand-options\fP] [\fIarguments\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bw
is a powerful, full-featured command-line interface (CLI) tool to access and
manage a Bitwarden vault. It provides complete access to vault management,
secure password generation, organization administration, and secure file
sharing through Bitwarden Send.

The CLI can be used for scripting and automation, integrating Bitwarden into
your workflows, or as a standalone password manager interface.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS Authentication
.TP
.BR bw-login (1)
Log into a Bitwarden user account.
.TP
.BR bw-logout (1)
Log out of the current user account.
.TP
.BR bw-lock (1)
Lock the vault and destroy active session keys.
.TP
.BR bw-unlock (1)
Unlock the vault and return a new session key.

.SS Vault Management
.TP
.BR bw-sync (1)
Pull the latest vault data from the server.
.TP
.BR bw-list (1)
List objects from the vault (items, folders, collections, organizations).
.TP
.BR bw-get (1)
Get an object from the vault.
.TP
.BR bw-create (1)
Create an object in the vault.
.TP
.BR bw-edit (1)
Edit an object in the vault.
.TP
.BR bw-delete (1)
Delete an object from the vault.
.TP
.BR bw-restore (1)
Restore an object from the trash.
.TP
.BR bw-move (1)
Move an item to an organization.
.TP
.BR bw-confirm (1)
Confirm an object (organization member).

.SS Data Exchange
.TP
.BR bw-import (1)
Import vault data from various formats.
.TP
.BR bw-export (1)
Export vault data to CSV, JSON, or encrypted JSON.

.SS Secure Sharing
.TP
.BR bw-send (1)
Create and manage Bitwarden Sends for secure sharing.
.TP
.BR bw-receive (1)
Access a Bitwarden Send from a URL.

.SS Utilities
.TP
.BR bw-generate (1)
Generate a password or passphrase.
.TP
.BR bw-encode (1)
Base64 encode stdin for use with create/edit commands.
.TP
.BR bw-config (1)
Configure CLI settings (server URLs).
.TP
.BR bw-status (1)
Show account and vault status.
.TP
.BR bw-update (1)
Check for CLI updates.
.TP
.BR bw-completion (1)
Generate shell completion scripts.

.SS API Server
.TP
.BR bw-serve (1)
Start a local RESTful API web server.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-pretty
Format output with indentation (JSON is printed with 2-space tabs).
.TP
.BR \-\-raw
Return raw output instead of a descriptive message.
.TP
.BR \-\-response
Return a JSON formatted version of response output. Includes status code,
data, and error message if applicable.
.TP
.BR \-\-cleanexit
Exit with code 0 unless there is an error. Useful for scripting.
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet
Don't return anything to stdout. Errors still go to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-\-nointeraction
Do not prompt for interactive user input. Useful for scripting and CI/CD.
.TP
.BI \-\-session\  session
Pass session key instead of reading from environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Output the version number.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help for the command.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B BW_SESSION
Session key for authenticated operations. Set after \fBbw unlock\fP.
.TP
.B BW_CLIENTID
API client ID for API key authentication.
.TP
.B BW_CLIENTSECRET
API client secret for API key authentication.
.TP
.B BW_PRETTY
Set to "true" to enable pretty-printed output by default.
.TP
.B BW_RAW
Set to "true" to enable raw output by default.
.TP
.B BW_RESPONSE
Set to "true" to enable JSON response format by default.
.TP
.B BW_QUIET
Set to "true" to suppress stdout output by default.
.TP
.B BW_CLEANEXIT
Set to "true" to exit with code 0 by default (unless error).
.TP
.B BW_NOINTERACTION
Set to "true" to disable interactive prompts by default.
.TP
.B BITWARDENCLI_APPDATA_DIR
Custom directory for CLI data storage.
.TP
.B NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS
Path to additional CA certificates for self-signed server certificates.

.SH SESSION MANAGEMENT
The Bitwarden CLI uses session keys to access the vault after authentication.
After logging in, you must unlock the vault to obtain a session key:

.RS
.nf
$ bw login
$ export BW_SESSION=$(bw unlock --raw)
.fi
.RE

The session key can also be passed directly to commands:

.RS
.nf
$ bw list items --session "YOUR_SESSION_KEY"
.fi
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Log in and set up session:
.nf
$ bw login user@example.com
$ export BW_SESSION=$(bw unlock --raw)
.fi
.TP
List all login items:
.nf
$ bw list items --search "github"
.fi
.TP
Get a specific item's password:
.nf
$ bw get password "My Login"
.fi
.TP
Generate a secure password:
.nf
$ bw generate -ulns --length 20
.fi
.TP
Create a new login item:
.nf
$ bw get template item | jq '.name="New Login"' | bw encode | bw create item
.fi
.TP
Export vault to JSON:
.nf
$ bw export --format json --output ~/backup.json
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/Bitwarden CLI/
Default data directory on Linux.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/Bitwarden CLI/
Default data directory on macOS.
.TP
.I %AppData%\\Bitwarden CLI\\
Default data directory on Windows.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution (or any exit when \-\-cleanexit is set).
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH SECURITY
.TP
\(bu
Session keys should be treated as sensitive data and not logged or exposed.
.TP
\(bu
Use \fB--nointeraction\fP in scripts to prevent hanging on prompts.
.TP
\(bu
Consider using API keys (\fBBW_CLIENTID\fP, \fBBW_CLIENTSECRET\fP) for automation.
.TP
\(bu
The vault data is encrypted at rest and in transit.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Bitwarden Inc. <https://bitwarden.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) Bitwarden Inc. Licensed under GPL-3.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bw-login (1),
.BR bw-unlock (1),
.BR bw-list (1),
.BR bw-get (1),
.BR bw-generate (1),
.BR bw-send (1),
.BR bw-serve (1)

Full documentation at: https://bitwarden.com/help/cli/
