# Technical Requirements for Push-Based Event Delivery

> **Purpose**: An output of [PM-35268](https://bitwarden.atlassian.net/browse/PM-35268), >which describes how to implement a push-based event delivery system for organization >integrations.

---

## Overview

Events (like password changes, new device logins, etc.) are constantly generated by the Bitwarden apps (web, mobile, desktop, cli) and can be viewed in the Admin Console -> Reporting -> Event Log.

Bitwarden now has the capability to "push" these events to third-party systems in near real-time, allowing organizations to use applications like Splunk, Datadog, Huntress and CrowdStrike to monitor and analyze their Bitwarden events.

This document outlines the technical requirements for implementing an integration into a third party system like Splunk.

## Setup

There are two sides to "push" based event delivery: the Server side and the Client side.

### The Server Side

The server side supports various types of integrations, including:

- Webhooks
- Slack
- Microsoft Teams
- Hec (which is supported by multiple platforms like splunk, blumira & huntress)
- Datadog

These integrations are well documented on the server repository under [Event Integrations](https://github.com/bitwarden/server/blob/main/src/Core/Dirt/EventIntegrations/README.md). The documentation covers the design goals, architecture, retries, data stores, event filters, including setup instructions for Azure Service Bus (ASB) and RabbitMQ.

The server side is completely independent of the client side.

#### Servers Side Event Delivery Flow - Summarized

1. An event is generated by the Bitwarden apps
2. It is sent to the "collect" endpoint in the "Events" service (which is separate from the API service)
3. The Events services invokes the "Event Writer", which publishes the event to ASB or RabbitMQ - depending on what the organization has set up
4. "Event Listener"(s) listens to ASB or RabbitMQ and picks up the published event
5. A "Repository Event Listener" picks up the event and writes it to the database
6. A "Slack Event Listener" picks up the event and sends it to Slack via the API
7. A "Hec Event Listener" picks up the event and sends it onto any HEC Configuration.

#### What is a HEC Configuration?

HEC stands for "HTTP Event Collector". A HEC configuration comprises of a:

- Uri (endpoint to send the event to (e.g. http://splunk-hec-endpoint:8088/services/collector))
- Token (for authentication, similar to a GUID)
- Schema (meta-data of the token, eg, "Bearer" or "Splunk")

This configuration is stored in the database table called `dbo.OrganizationIntegration`

The HEC Event Listeners, use the Uri as the destination for a HTTP request, and the Schema and Token as the authentication parameters with that request.

### The Client Side

The sole purpose of the client is to setup a configuration in the database `dbo.OrganizationIntegration` and `dbo.OrganizationIntegrationConfiguration` tables.
Users can do this in the Admin Console -> Organization Settings -> Integrations -> Event Delivery. This is the client side of the event delivery system.

The server side then picks up this configuration and uses it to send events to the specified endpoint.

> **Note**: In order to maximize performance, the server caches reads from `dbo.OrganizationIntegration` and only refreshes the cache every few minutes. Normal cache busting techniques are used when a configuration is added, updated or deleted, but there may be a delay of a few minutes before the server picks up the new configuration and starts sending events to the new endpoint.

Lets dive deeper into the client side setup.

## Client side Capability

At this time, the client side is capable of

- collecting HEC configuration parameters (Uri, Token, Schema)
- setup the event data definition

To setup a new integration, a developer needs to:

- create a new record in `organization-integrations.resolver.ts` to define the name of the integration (e.g. Splunk, Blumira, Datadog etc.), along with
  - the brand images (logos)
  - the integration type (e.g. HEC, Webhook, Slack, Microsoft Teams etc.)
  - the event type (Event, Device etc)

The client is capable of: - rendering a card with the logo - open a dialog to collect the necessary parameters (Uri, Token, Schema for HEC) - saving the configuration in the database tables (`dbo.OrganizationIntegration` and `dbo.OrganizationIntegrationConfiguration`)

All HEC events use this following data definition.

```typescript
const template: Record<string, any> = {
  bw_serviceName: this.bw_serviceName,
  source: "bitwarden",
  service: "event-logs",
  event: {
    object: "event",
    type: "#TypeId#",
    typeName: "#Type#",
    memberId: "#UserId#",
    organizationId: "#OrganizationId#",
    providerId: "#ProviderId#",
    itemId: "#CipherId#",
    collectionId: "#CollectionId#",
    groupId: "#GroupId#",
    policyId: "#PolicyId#",
    organizationUserId: "#OrganizationUserId#",
    providerUserId: "#ProviderUserId#",
    providerOrganizationId: "#ProviderOrganizationId#",
    actingUserId: "#ActingUserId#",
    installationId: "#InstallationId#",
    date: "#DateIso8601#",
    deviceType: "#DeviceType#",
    device: "#DeviceTypeId#",
    ipAddress: "#IpAddress#",
    systemUser: "#SystemUser#",
    domainName: "#DomainName#",
    secretId: "#SecretId#",
    projectId: "#ProjectId#",
    serviceAccountId: "#ServiceAccountId#",
  },
};
```

Almost all of these properties are GUIDS. It is possible to enrich this message with a few more properties like ActingUserName, ActingUserEmail, OrganizationName, GroupName, by appending them to the template:

```typescript
    ...
    event: {
        ...
        actingUserName: "#ActingUserName#",
        actingUserEmail: "#ActingUserEmail#",
        organizationName: "#OrganizationName#",
        groupName: "#GroupName#",
    }
```

## How to setup an Integration in the Admin Console

The intent of the client side is to add a record in the `dbo.OrganizationIntegration` and `dbo.OrganizationIntegrationConfiguration` tables, which the server side can then pick up and use to send events to the specified endpoint.

There are two ways to setup an integration in the Admin Console:

1. Use a Claude skill `/create-hec-event-integration`
2. Manually setup the integration

### 1. Use the Claude skill

Invoking the skill `/create-hec-event-integration` will prompt the user to answer a few questions about the integration they want to setup, such as:

- Name of the integration (example: Splunk, Blumira, Datadog etc.)
- The authentication method (example: Token, API key etc.) - currently only token-based authentication is supported
- Whether they have the logos ready to provide

Given these parameters, the skill will:

- Add a constant for the service name in `OrganizationIntegrationServiceName` (example: `Splunk`, `Blumira`, `Datadog` etc.)
- Create a feature flag for the integration (example: `event-management-for-splunk`)
- Create an Integration card behind the feature flag in the Admin Console -> Organization Settings -> Integrations -> Event Delivery

### 2. Manually setup the integration

Here are the settings needed to leverage the capability already built into the client, to setup an integration manually:

- In `organization-integrations.resolver.ts`, add a new record similar to Huntress or Blumira
  - Ensure that integration name is defined in `OrganizationIntegrationServiceName` (example: `Splunk`, `Blumira`, `Datadog` etc.)
  - The `linkURL` property references the documentation for setting up the integration
  - `image` and `darkModeImage` properties reference the logos for the integration, which should be added to `apps/web/src/images/integrations/`
  - `type` property defines the type of integration (e.g. HEC, Webhook, Slack, Microsoft Teams etc.) - in this case it will be HEC
  - `canSetupConnection` property should be set to true if the integration requires parameters to be collected (e.g. Uri, Token, Schema for HEC)
  - `integrationType` property should be set to "Event" for event delivery integrations
  - `urlHelperLinkText` is a hint that appears as a suggestion in the connection setup dialog

This is all the setup required to leverage the built-in capability of the client to setup an integration.

With this setup, the user may navigate to the Admin Console -> Organization Settings -> Integrations -> Event Delivery, and see the new integration card. They can click on "Connect" and input the necessary parameters (Uri, Token, Schema for HEC) to save the configuration in the database tables (`dbo.OrganizationIntegration` and `dbo.OrganizationIntegrationConfiguration`).

## Server Configuration - Clarifications

### Azure Service Bus vs RabbitMQ

Cloud instances of Bitwarden (hosted by Bitwarden) use Azure Service Bus for event delivery and self-hosted instances of Bitwarden use RabbitMQ.

The setup and deployment are a part of the Bitwarden infrastructure and DevOps teams and therefore, no changes are needed in this task to setup or manager both Azure Service Bus or RabbitMQ.

## Tasks required tp implement a new integration

1. Setup an instance of the integration, either via Docker or a free trial
2. Determine the the branding logos that adhere to the marketing guidelines of the third-party system.
3. Use the `/create-hec-event-integration` Claude skill to create the integration in the Admin Console
4. If the integration requires specific enrichment, update the event data definition in the client to include the necessary properties (e.g. ActingUserName, ActingUserEmail, OrganizationName, GroupName etc.)
5. Write unit tests for the changes made on the client.
6. Test the changes.

## Conclusion

The client side is already setup to create new integrations. Details of how the integration works are explained in a [readme.md](https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/blob/main/bitwarden_license/bit-common/src/dirt/organization-integrations/services/README.md)
