libs/pricing/src/components/pricing-card/pricing-card.component.mdx, before:

import { Meta, Story, Canvas } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import * as PricingCardStories from "./pricing-card.component.stories";

<Meta of={PricingCardStories} />

# Pricing Card

A reusable UI component for displaying pricing plans with consistent styling and behavior across
Bitwarden applications.

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Default} />

## Usage

The pricing card component is designed to be used in billing and subscription interfaces to display
different pricing tiers and plans.

```ts
import { PricingCardComponent } from "@bitwarden/pricing";
```

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  tagline="Everything you need for secure password management"
  [price]="{ amount: 10, cadence: 'monthly', showPerUser: true }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Premium', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="features"
  [activeBadge]="{ text: 'Active plan', show: true }"
  (buttonClick)="onPlanSelected()"
>
  <h2 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Premium Plan</h2>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

## API

### Inputs

| Input         | Type                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tagline`     | `string`                                                                                                         | **Required.** Descriptive text below title (max 2 lines)                                                                                                |
| `price`       | `{ amount: number; cadence: "monthly" \| "annually"; showPerUser?: boolean }`                                    | **Optional.** Price information. If omitted, no price is shown                                                                                          |
| `button`      | `{ type: ButtonType; text: string; disabled?: boolean; icon?: { type: string; position: "before" \| "after" } }` | **Optional.** Button configuration with optional icon. If omitted, no button is shown. Icon uses `bwi-*` classes, position defaults to "after"          |
| `features`    | `string[]`                                                                                                       | **Optional.** List of features with checkmarks                                                                                                          |
| `activeBadge` | `{ text: string; variant?: BadgeVariant }`                                                                       | **Optional.** Active plan badge using proper Badge component, positioned on the same line as title, aligned to the right. If omitted, no badge is shown |

### Content Slots

| Slot         | Description                                                                                                 |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title-slot` | **Required.** HTML element with `title-slot` class for the title with appropriate heading level and styling |

### Events

| Event         | Type   | Description                               |
| ------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `buttonClick` | `void` | Emitted when the action button is clicked |

## Flexibility

The title slot allows complete control over the heading element and styling:

```html
<!-- Different semantic levels -->
<h1 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Main Plan</h1>
<h3 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Sub Plan</h3>

<!-- Custom styling -->
<h2 class="title-slot tw-m-0 tw-text-primary-600" bitTypography="h2">Featured Plan</h2>
```

| Output        | Type   | Description                             |
| ------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------- |
| `buttonClick` | `void` | Emitted when the plan button is clicked |

## Design

The component follows the Bitwarden design system with:

- **Fixed width**: 449px for consistent layout
- **Border & Elevation**: secondary-100 border with shadow-sm elevation
- **Border radius**: 24px (tw-rounded-3xl) for modern appearance
- **Spacing**: 32px padding (tw-p-8) around content
- **Modern Angular**: Uses `@if`, `@for`, and `@switch` control flow with signal inputs
- **Signal inputs**: Type-safe inputs using Angular's signal-based input API
- **Official buttons**: Uses `bitButton` directive from Component Library
- **Typography**: Uses `bitTypography` helper and custom 30px price styling
- **Icons**: Uses `bwi-check` icon with primary-600 styling from the legacy icon library
- **Layout**: Flexbox column layout with button positioned at bottom
- **Accessibility**: Configurable heading levels and semantic structure

## Examples

### Basic Plan (No Price)

For free or contact-based plans, omit the `price` input:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.WithoutPrice} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Free Plan"
  tagline="Get started with essential features"
  [button]="{ text: 'Get Started', type: 'secondary' }"
  [features]="freeFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Business Plan with Per User Pricing

Show business plans with "per user" text:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.LongTagline} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Business Plan"
  tagline="Advanced security and management for teams"
  [price]="{ amount: 5, cadence: 'monthly', showPerUser: true }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Start Business Trial', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="businessFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Annual Pricing

Show annual pricing with different cadence:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Annual} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Premium Plan"
  tagline="Save with annual billing"
  [price]="{ amount: 120, cadence: 'annually' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Annual', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="premiumFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Configurable Heading Levels

For accessibility, you can configure the heading level:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.ConfigurableHeadings} />

```html
<!-- In a section with h1, use h2 for plan titles -->
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Premium Plan"
  tagline="Best value option"
  [titleLevel]="'h2'"
  [price]="{ amount: 10, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Plan', type: 'primary' }"
>
</billing-pricing-card>

<!-- In a subsection, use h4 for plan titles -->
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Add-on Plan"
  tagline="Extra features"
  [titleLevel]="'h4'"
  [price]="{ amount: 5, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Add to Plan', type: 'secondary' }"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Disabled State

For coming soon or unavailable plans:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Disabled} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Enterprise Plan"
  tagline="Advanced features coming soon"
  [price]="{ amount: 50, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Coming Soon', type: 'secondary', disabled: true }"
  [features]="enterpriseFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Pricing Grid Layout

Multiple cards displayed together:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.PricingGrid} />

## Button Types

The component supports all standard button types from the Component Library:

- `primary` - Main call-to-action (blue background, white text)
- `secondary` - Secondary action (transparent background, blue text)
- `danger` - Destructive actions (red theme)
- `unstyled` - Text-only button

## Do's and Don'ts

### ✅ Do

- Use consistent button text like "Choose [Plan]" or "Get Started"
- Keep taglines concise and focused on key benefits
- Use annual pricing to show value (e.g., "2 months free")
- Group related plans together with consistent styling

### ❌ Don't

- Make taglines longer than 2 lines (they will be truncated)
- Use custom button styling - rely on the built-in types
- Mix different pricing cadences in the same comparison
- Override the 449px width - it's designed for optimal layout

## Accessibility

The component includes:

- Proper heading hierarchy (`h3` for titles)
- Semantic button elements with `type="button"`
- Screen reader friendly structure
- Focus management and keyboard navigation
- High contrast color combinations

Commit message:

Update all the card to have the same height

libs/pricing/src/components/pricing-card/pricing-card.component.mdx, after:

import { Meta, Story, Canvas } from "@storybook/addon-docs";
import * as PricingCardStories from "./pricing-card.component.stories";

<Meta of={PricingCardStories} />

# Pricing Card

A reusable UI component for displaying pricing plans with consistent styling and behavior across
Bitwarden applications.

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Default} />

## Usage

The pricing card component is designed to be used in billing and subscription interfaces to display
different pricing tiers and plans.

```ts
import { PricingCardComponent } from "@bitwarden/pricing";
```

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  tagline="Everything you need for secure password management"
  [price]="{ amount: 10, cadence: 'monthly', showPerUser: true }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Premium', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="features"
  [activeBadge]="{ text: 'Active plan', show: true }"
  (buttonClick)="onPlanSelected()"
>
  <h2 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Premium Plan</h2>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

## API

### Inputs

| Input         | Type                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tagline`     | `string`                                                                                                         | **Required.** Descriptive text below title (max 2 lines)                                                                                                |
| `price`       | `{ amount: number; cadence: "monthly" \| "annually"; showPerUser?: boolean }`                                    | **Optional.** Price information. If omitted, no price is shown                                                                                          |
| `button`      | `{ type: ButtonType; text: string; disabled?: boolean; icon?: { type: string; position: "before" \| "after" } }` | **Optional.** Button configuration with optional icon. If omitted, no button is shown. Icon uses `bwi-*` classes, position defaults to "after"          |
| `features`    | `string[]`                                                                                                       | **Optional.** List of features with checkmarks                                                                                                          |
| `activeBadge` | `{ text: string; variant?: BadgeVariant }`                                                                       | **Optional.** Active plan badge using proper Badge component, positioned on the same line as title, aligned to the right. If omitted, no badge is shown |

### Content Slots

| Slot         | Description                                                                                                 |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title-slot` | **Required.** HTML element with `title-slot` class for the title with appropriate heading level and styling |

### Events

| Event         | Type   | Description                               |
| ------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `buttonClick` | `void` | Emitted when the action button is clicked |

## Flexibility

The title slot allows complete control over the heading element and styling:

```html
<!-- Different semantic levels -->
<h1 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Main Plan</h1>
<h3 class="title-slot tw-m-0" bitTypography="h3">Sub Plan</h3>

<!-- Custom styling -->
<h2 class="title-slot tw-m-0 tw-text-primary-600" bitTypography="h2">Featured Plan</h2>
```

| Output        | Type   | Description                             |
| ------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------- |
| `buttonClick` | `void` | Emitted when the plan button is clicked |

## Design

The component follows the Bitwarden design system with:

- **Fixed width**: 449px for consistent layout
- **Border & Elevation**: secondary-100 border with shadow-sm elevation
- **Border radius**: 24px (tw-rounded-3xl) for modern appearance
- **Spacing**: 32px padding (tw-p-8) around content
- **Modern Angular**: Uses `@if`, `@for`, and `@switch` control flow with signal inputs
- **Signal inputs**: Type-safe inputs using Angular's signal-based input API
- **Official buttons**: Uses `bitButton` directive from Component Library
- **Typography**: Uses `bitTypography` helper and custom 30px price styling
- **Icons**: Uses `bwi-check` icon with primary-600 styling from the legacy icon library
- **Layout**: Flexbox column layout with `tw-h-full` for equal height alignment in grid layouts
- **Accessibility**: Configurable heading levels and semantic structure

## Examples

### Basic Plan (No Price)

For free or contact-based plans, omit the `price` input:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.WithoutPrice} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Free Plan"
  tagline="Get started with essential features"
  [button]="{ text: 'Get Started', type: 'secondary' }"
  [features]="freeFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Business Plan with Per User Pricing

Show business plans with "per user" text:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.LongTagline} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Business Plan"
  tagline="Advanced security and management for teams"
  [price]="{ amount: 5, cadence: 'monthly', showPerUser: true }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Start Business Trial', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="businessFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Annual Pricing

Show annual pricing with different cadence:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Annual} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Premium Plan"
  tagline="Save with annual billing"
  [price]="{ amount: 120, cadence: 'annually' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Annual', type: 'primary' }"
  [features]="premiumFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Configurable Heading Levels

For accessibility, you can configure the heading level:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.ConfigurableHeadings} />

```html
<!-- In a section with h1, use h2 for plan titles -->
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Premium Plan"
  tagline="Best value option"
  [titleLevel]="'h2'"
  [price]="{ amount: 10, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Choose Plan', type: 'primary' }"
>
</billing-pricing-card>

<!-- In a subsection, use h4 for plan titles -->
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Add-on Plan"
  tagline="Extra features"
  [titleLevel]="'h4'"
  [price]="{ amount: 5, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Add to Plan', type: 'secondary' }"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Disabled State

For coming soon or unavailable plans:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.Disabled} />

```html
<billing-pricing-card
  title="Enterprise Plan"
  tagline="Advanced features coming soon"
  [price]="{ amount: 50, cadence: 'monthly' }"
  [button]="{ text: 'Coming Soon', type: 'secondary', disabled: true }"
  [features]="enterpriseFeatures"
>
</billing-pricing-card>
```

### Pricing Grid Layout

Multiple cards displayed together:

<Canvas of={PricingCardStories.PricingGrid} />

## Button Types

The component supports all standard button types from the Component Library:

- `primary` - Main call-to-action (blue background, white text)
- `secondary` - Secondary action (transparent background, blue text)
- `danger` - Destructive actions (red theme)
- `unstyled` - Text-only button

## Do's and Don'ts

### ✅ Do

- Use consistent button text like "Choose [Plan]" or "Get Started"
- Keep taglines concise and focused on key benefits
- Use annual pricing to show value (e.g., "2 months free")
- Group related plans together with consistent styling

### ❌ Don't

- Make taglines longer than 2 lines (they will be truncated)
- Use custom button styling - rely on the built-in types
- Mix different pricing cadences in the same comparison
- Override the 449px width - it's designed for optimal layout

## Accessibility

The component includes:

- Proper heading hierarchy (`h3` for titles)
- Semantic button elements with `type="button"`
- Screen reader friendly structure
- Focus management and keyboard navigation
- High contrast color combinations
